[Music]
here's a quick question for you
do you think you know everything about
your own body
are you sure how about the fact that 25%
of an adult's bones are in their feet or
that tastebuds
aren't actually those bumps on your
tongue well get ready for some
eyeopener's pouch no we're really not
gonna open up someone's eyes we don't do
surgery here on the bright side at least
for now here we go your stomach gets a
new lining every three to four days this
way your body prevents the stomach from
digesting itself your brain contains
more than 86 billion nerve cells which
are joined with one another by 100
trillion connections that's many more
than the number of stars in our home
Milky Way galaxy oh by the way if you
decided to count all those numerous
nerve cells in your brain it would take
you up to 3,000 years your fingernails
grow faster on your dominant hand in
other words if you're right with your
right hand you'll have to trim those
nails more often your fingernails also
grow faster in the summer and during the
day when your brain sends messages to
different parts of your body
the signals travel along your nerves at
a speed of up to 270 miles per hour it's
way faster than a sports car people
spend more than four years of their
lives eating Wow is the restaurant
service that's law hey just kidding the
fastest muscles in your body are those
that make your eyes blink their
contraction speed is one blank in less
than one hundredth of a second in a day
you can blink more than 15,000 times in
their lifetime the average person
process has more than 100,000 pounds of
food that's more than the weight of
seven elephants combined and how do you
eat an elephant yep one bite at a time
if someone decided to uncoil the human
DNA the whole thing would stretch for 10
billion miles which is 40,000 times more
than the distance between the Earth and
Moon
if you don't have insomnia you're likely
to spend around one third of your life
asleep but there are creatures that
sleep even more for example for a dog
this time is 44 percent of their life
and for a Python 75 percent during just
one day all the blood in your body
travels more than 12,000 miles that's
half as long as the distance around the
earth your skeleton will renew itself
completely within 10 years an adult uses
around 200 muscles to make just one step
and don't tell me I don't work out
enough every minute your body sheds more
than 3000 skin cells it's almost two
hundred thousand skin cells per hour and
more than nine pounds per year but don't
worry you still have about 300 million
skin cells at any given moment plus your
skin completely renews itself every
twenty eight to thirty days the liver is
the only human organ that can regenerate
completely as little as 25% of the
original liver weight can get back to
its full size skin cells create a lot of
dust not only under your bed but also in
the Earth's atmosphere
if someone collected all the flaked off
skin cells floating in the air this dust
would weigh up to a billion tons it's a
hundred 50 times the weight of the Great
Pyramid how's that for a comparison you
won't be able to see your taste buds by
the naked eye because they're too tiny
the small bumps most people take for
taste buds are called papillae real
taste buds are on top of these hairlike
projections by the way taste buds also
have a very short life cycle they live
for no longer than 10 to 14 days so they
get a very short taste of life the
average person has more than 100,000
hairs on their head and since this hair
grows about 6 inches per year it'll make
more than 40 feet in a lifetime
some people can hear their eyeballs
moving inside the eye sockets
that must be no fun unlike other parts
of your body your ears and nose never
stop growing your skin wrinkles if you
stay in the water for too long but not
because it absorbs water when your
body's wet wrinkled fingers and toes
provide you with a better grip you know
like when the treads on your car tires
grip the road better when they're new
your eyes are an amazing instrument they
can distinguish between ten million
different colors your brain uses more
than 20% of your body's energy even when
you're resting when you're asleep
it still consumes almost as much power
as when you're awake it also burns
around 330 calories per day at that an
adult person has about 25% of all their
bones in their feet most of them are
tiny but crucial if these bones are out
of alignment so is the rest of the body
you breathe around 20,000 times a day eh
try not to stop human bones are a real
paradox there are almost five times
stronger than a steel bar with the same
width but can fracture on impact and are
rather brittle fingers don't have
muscles that can make them move all the
muscles that move the finger joints are
located in the forearm and palm your
body contains more than 37 trillion
cells earth has more than seven billion
inhabitants it means that there are over
5,000 times more cells in your body than
people on our planet
it surely depends on your lifestyle and
how much you move but the average person
will walk up to 110 thousand miles in
their lifetime which is half as long as
the distance from the earth to the moon
or more than four times longer than the
distance around our planet
if a person has anosmia also called
smell blindness they can't distinguish
and detect smells but they can still be
smelling you start feeling thirsty when
water loss is one percent of your body
weight more than five percent and you
may faint water loss that's bigger than
10 percent of the body weight and
dehydration can end a person the
strongest muscle in your body based on
its weight is your jaw muscle at any
moment fifty thousand cells in your body
are getting replaced by new ones boy
that sounds like a company I used to
work for by the end of their life the
average person can recall up to 150
trillion pieces of information except
for where they left their car keys
even if fingerprints are badly damaged
they still grow back with their original
pattern your most powerful sneeze can
travel at a speed of more than 100 miles
per hour almost as fast as a skydiver in
freefall the average person has about
250 hairs in each eyebrow these hairs
get completely replaced every four
months
your brains memory capacity is
equivalent to about 4 terabytes on a
hard drive which is more than 8 million
photos people are the only living
creatures that can naturally sleep on
their backs even apes usually sleep in a
sitting position leaning on something
your longest bone is your thigh bone not
your funny bone and the tiniest one is
in the ear it's shorter than a grain of
rice the largest organ in your body is
your skin despite being thin it weighs a
surprising 9 to 11 pounds that's the
weight of a healthy and well-fed house
cat your skull may feel like it's all in
one piece but in fact it consists of 29
different bones the only part of your
body they can't heal itself is your
teeth ah
what a shame right-handed people tend to
chew most of their food on the right
sides of their mouths while the
left-handed up for the left side out of
all people who can move their ears only
30% can move just one year such talent
every person has dimples on their lower
back but in some people they're more
pronounced than in others these dimples
appear in places where the pelvis
connected with a sacrum so their
existence even if it's not a parent
makes sense your right lung is shorter
than the left one because it has to
leave some room for your liver the left
lung on the other hand is narrower since
it has to make space for the heart a
male's lungs can usually hold more air
than a woman's surprisingly you burn
more calories when you're sleeping than
when you're watching TV by the time you
turn 60 you're likely to lose 50% of
your taste buds ah your hair goes twice
faster when you're traveling by plane it
has to do with higher atmospheric
pressure the muscles that help your eyes
focus make around 100,000 movements a
day if you want to make your leg muscles
move as much you'd need to walk 50 miles
when you listen to music your heart
starts beating in sync with it if all
the wrinkles on the brain got smoothed
out it would be the size of the
pillowcase well let's try it you first
no just kidding hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend and
here are some other videos and I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]